docs(maintenance): create upgrade guide (#1994)
aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-typescript: docs/upgrade.md

description: Guide to update between major Powertools for AWS Lambda (TypeScript) versions
---

## Migrate from v1 to v2

> We've made targeted breaking changes to make your transition to v2 as smooth as possible while still providing you with the most up-to-date features and patterns. This guide will help you migrate your existing codebase to v2.

Reviewer: The first part of the sentece feels a bit odd, I'd suggest to remove it and start with "To make your transition".

Author: Changed

> ### Quick summary

Reviewer: Should we also add a note about layer changes, so customers need to use new layer name? There might be expectation that we only increment the version number.

Author: I think that's covered by the section below (First steps) where we say "ensure that you have the latest version via Lambda Layer" with the section in the docs linked. 

That section in the docs will have the new ARN.

| Area                                   | Change                                                                                                                                           | Code change required |
| -------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------- |
| **ES Modules support**                 | Added ES Modules support via dual CommonJS and ES Module bundling, this enables top-level `await` and tree-shaking.                              | No                   |

> | **Middy.js middleware imports**        | Updated import path for Middy.js middlewares to leverage subpath exports - i.e. `@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer/middleware`.                      | Yes                  |

Reviewer: This only applies in cases when customers already use middy, and having a general "Yes" in the last column might be not clear. Can we add a note, something like "only if you are using middy".

Author: The line item starts with `Middy.js`, I think it's clear enough. As a reader if I'm not using middy or don't know what it is, I'd stop paying attention to that line.

In this case I'd be more inclined to prioritize keeping the table/page as little dense as possible.

| **Types imports**                      | Updated import path for TypeScript types to leverage subpath exports - i.e. `@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/types`.                               | Yes                  |

> | **Logger - log sampling**              | Changed implementation of [log sampling](./core/logger.md#sampling-logs) to dynamically switch log level to `DEBUG` on a percentage of requests. | -                    |

Reviewer: Should this be a "No" in a last column or is it not clear and require more explanation to narrow down the cases?

Author: I changed the other one (first line) to `-` as well, so they're the same.

Reviewer: What does `-` mean?

Author: It means `No`. 

I decided to follow what Python did with their upgrade guide and use `-` as well in an effort to keep the info density low (aka the table looks less dense).

But if we think it's unclear or confusing let's put `No` directly.

Reviewer 2: The `-` keeps customers visually focused on what needs action.

Reviewer: I still don't understand why we have two different semantics for a `No` in a Yes/No column.

| **Logger - Custom Log Formatter**      | Updated [custom log formatter](#custom-log-formatter) to include additional persistent attributes along with standard structured keys.           | Yes                  |

> | **Logger & Tracer - helper functions** | Removed deprecated `createLogger` and `createTracer` helper functions in favor of direct instantiation.                                          | Yes                  |

Reviewer: It's probably best to have a short info before the quick overview to mention that it only applies for cases where this functionality is already in use and that hint that the guide goes into each case in detail.

description: Guide to update between major Powertools for AWS Lambda (TypeScript) versions
---

> 

Reviewer 2: Add a banner to signal a date or when they can expect to get an official date for v2. This will later be a section `End of support v1`

Author: Done!

I also added an announcement at the top of the site linking the upgrade guide 
<img width="555" alt="Screenshot 2024-02-09 at 16 53 54" src="https://github.com/aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-typescript/assets/7353869/9e0aabe9-36e6-40d0-a09b-8ad9868a39be">

I will also add a comment to the RFC once this is merged & published.

## Migrate from v1 to v2

> To make your transition to v2 as smooth as possible while still providing you with the most up-to-date features and patterns we have made targeted breaking changes to some of the utilities. This guide will help you migrate your existing codebase to v2.
> 
> ### Quick summary
> 
> Below a list of the main changes introduced in v2, review the sections below for more details and code examples for the changes that apply to your codebase.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

V2 is focused on official support for ESM (ECMAScript modules). We've made other minimal breaking changes to make your transition to v2 as smooth as possible.

### Quick summary

```

This doesn't say much, if I'm honest. Suggestion: tell it what it is upfront, then present the quick summary.

| Area                                   | Change                                                                                                                                           | Code change required |
| -------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------- |

> | **ES Modules support**                 | Added ES Modules support via dual CommonJS and ES Module bundling, this enables top-level `await` and tree-shaking.                              | -                    |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **ES Modules support**                 | Added ES Modules support via dual CommonJS and ES Module bundling, enabling top-level `await` and tree-shaking.                              | -                    |
```

line editing

> | **Middy.js middleware imports**        | Updated import path for Middy.js middlewares to leverage subpath exports - i.e. `@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer/middleware`.                      | Yes                  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Middy.js **        | Updated import path for Middy.js middlewares to leverage subpath exports - i.e. `@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer/middleware`.                      | Yes                  |
```

Could you tell me a bit more on `leverage subpath exports`? Is this for tree shaking?

Author: Yes, that's the main customer facing benefit.

This [comment here](https://github.com/aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-typescript/discussions/1269#discussioncomment-4891876) has a longer explanation of why tree-shaking wasn't working in v1, but essentially with subpath exports customers import that code path only if they actually need it.

If they don't, they have smaller bundle size and less code being evaluated during init.

In some cases (not for Middy specifically though), customers could have better tree-shaking already but it was a bit cumbersome and risky. If they inspected the file structure of the package they would see for instance that the code they wanted to import was found at `lib/formatters/LogFormatter.js`. 

With this knowledge they could import something by changing their imports to `@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/lib/formatters/LogFormatter.js`. This however was more verbose and also more likely to break in case we changed our directory structure or filename.

Also, as a closing note, tree shaking is a feature that [works only with ESM when using bundlers](https://esbuild.github.io/api/#tree-shaking) like `esbuild` (which is default in both SAM & CDK):
> Note that esbuild's tree shaking implementation relies on the use of ECMAScript module import and export statements. It does not work with CommonJS modules. Many packages on npm include both formats and esbuild tries to pick the format that works with tree shaking by default.

Reviewer 2: thanks a lot for the super explainer ;) Lemme wordsmith it to see if I can make this slightly clearer.

| **Types imports**                      | Updated import path for TypeScript types to leverage subpath exports - i.e. `@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/types`.                               | Yes                  |

> | **Logger - log sampling**              | Changed implementation of [log sampling](./core/logger.md#sampling-logs) to dynamically switch log level to `DEBUG` on a percentage of requests. | -                    |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Logger**              | Changed [log sampling](./core/logger.md#sampling-logs) to dynamically switch log level to `DEBUG` on a percentage of requests. | -                    |
```

You are repeating the `change` in the `area` field, making it longer to read at a quick glance. By keeping `Logger`, it's easier for the eye to quickly scan how many breaking changes `Logger` have (estimate/perception) - if they use it, they can then read the actual `change`.

At first, it can look like a win by having the area with the change so they can skip ahead, but what we're actually optimizing in the `Quick summary` section is for people to quickly scan what major areas are having breaking changes (`log sampling` being a minor area).

line editing to cut unnecessary words.

> | **Logger - Custom Log Formatter**      | Updated [custom log formatter](#custom-log-formatter) to include additional persistent attributes along with standard structured keys.           | Yes                  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Logger**      | Updated [custom log formatter](#custom-log-formatter) to include standard as well as persistent keys.           | Yes                  |
```

line editing (keep area clean, less glue words in change). Let me know if I accidentally changed its meaning -- I took context from here https://github.com/aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-typescript/issues/1261#issuecomment-1424708563

> | **Logger & Tracer - helper functions** | Removed deprecated `createLogger` and `createTracer` helper functions in favor of direct instantiation.                                          | Yes                  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Logger and Tracer** | Removed deprecated `createLogger` and `createTracer` helper functions in favor of direct instantiation.                                          | Yes                  |
```

line editing (keep area clean)

### First steps

Before you start, we suggest making a copy of your current working project or create a new git branch.

1. Upgrade Node.js to v16 or higher, Node.js v20 is recommended.
2. Ensure that you have the latest Powertools for AWS Lambda (TypeScript) version via [Lambda Layer](./index.md#lambda-layer) or npm.
3. Review the following sections to confirm whether they apply to your codebase.

## ES Modules support

> Starting with v2, Powertools for AWS Lambda (TypeScript) supports ES Modules. This means that you can now import the package using the `import` syntax instead of the `require` syntax. This is especially useful if you want to leverage features like top-level `await` in your Lambda function to run asynchronous code during the initialization phase.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With support for ES Modules in v2, you can now use `import` instead of `require` syntax.

This is especially useful when you want to run asynchronous code during the initialization phase by using top-level `await`.
```

line editing - cut unnecessary words, jumped straight to the action they should be aware, and split the personal touch into an extra line to emphasize its usefulness.

tip: 
- watch out for repeated words with same or similar meanings (`you can now import the package using import`)
- For longer sentences, try using shorter synonyms `to leverage` -> `to use`
- If something isn't immediately obvious when enumerating examples with `features like top-level...`, drop it entirely and focus on one at hand, further improving cognitive load _(working memory)_
- If a new use case is unblocked, lead with that by swapping what you wrote (`This is especially useful when you want to <case>`)

```typescript
import { getSecret } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/parameters/secrets';

// This code will run during the initialization phase of your Lambda function
const myApiKey = await getSecret('my-api-key', { transform: 'json' });

> export const handler = async () => {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
export const handler = async (_event, _context) => {
```

completeness

    // ...
};
```

> With this change, you can also apply tree-shaking to your function bundle to reduce its size. As part of this release we have made changes to the package and its exports to better support this feature, and we remain committed to improving this in the future based on your feedback.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In v2, we improved tree-shaking support to help you reduce your function bundle size. We would love to hear your feedback on further improvements we could make.
```

line editing to simplify message and improve cognitive load. Let me know if it's still accurate. 

Add your personal touch (maintainers)

**FROM**

> We remain committed to improving this in the future based on your feedback.

**TO**

> We would love to hear your feedback on further improvements we could make.

quick editing samples to improve in the future:

- `As part of this release` -> `In v2`
- `we have made changes to the package` -> `we changed`

> With this change, you can also apply tree-shaking to your function bundle to reduce its size. As part of this release we have made changes to the package and its exports to better support this feature, and we remain committed to improving this in the future based on your feedback.
> 
> While we recommend using ES Modules, we understand that this change might not be possible for everyone. If you're unable to use ES Modules, you can continue to use the `require` syntax to import the package. Powertools for AWS Lambda (TypeScript) will continue to support this syntax by shipping CommonJS modules alongside ES Modules.
> 
> In some cases, even when opting for ES Modules, you might still need to use the `require` syntax to import a package. For example, if you're using a package that doesn't support ES Modules, or if one of your transitive dependencies is using the `require` syntax like it's the case for `@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer` which relies on the AWS X-Ray SDK for Node.js. In these cases, you can still use ES Modules for the rest of your codebase and set a special build flag to tell your bundler to inject a banner at the top of the file to use the `require` syntax for the specific package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Unable to use ESM?

!!! note "We recommend using ESM for the best experience _(top-level await, smaller bundle size etc.)_."

If you're unable to use ESM, you can still use the `require` syntax to import the package. We will continue to support it by shipping CommonJS modules alongside ESM.

You might still need the `require` syntax when using a dependency or a transitive dependency that doesn't support ESM. For example, Tracer _(`@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer`)_ relies on the AWS X-Ray SDK for Node.js which uses `require`.

When that happens, you can instruct your bundler to use the `require` syntax for specific dependencies while using ESM for everything else. This is commonly known as [polyfill](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Polyfill){target="_blank"}. 

Here is an example using `esbuild` bundler.
```

It'll look like this at the end. Why have I done this?

* I’m using a separate section to lure people who can’t use ESM
* A separate section will also save discussions about this topic thanks to deep link
* I’m breaking that terse but useful information in three paragraphs so they can read, memorize, digest, and move on to the next bit
* I’m sending them at the end to MDN to learn more about the term that’s been there for a while so they can become experts too

tip: lead with the answer / use case, learn about `sentence fragmentation`, join them, then try cutting to have the least amount of sentences while keeping the core of your message.

<img width="1561" alt="image" src="https://github.com/aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-typescript/assets/3340292/973909c5-e042-4f77-b011-cafda363649d">

=== "With AWS CDK"

    ```typescript hl_lines="15 20-21"
    import { Stack, type StackProps } from 'aws-cdk-lib';
    import { Construct } from 'constructs';
    import { NodejsFunction, OutputFormat } from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-lambda-nodejs';
    import { Runtime } from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-lambda';

    export class MyStack extends Stack {
      public constructor(scope: Construct, id: string, props?: StackProps) {
        super(scope, id, props);

        const handler = new NodejsFunction(this, 'helloWorldFunction', {
          runtime: Runtime.NODEJS_20_X,
          handler: 'handler',
          entry: 'src/index.ts',
          bundling: {
            format: OutputFormat.ESM,
            minify: true,
            esbuildArgs: {
              "--tree-shaking": "true",
            },
            banner: 

>               "import { createRequire } from 'module';const require = createRequire(import.meta.url);",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
              "import { createRequire } from 'module';const require = createRequire(import.meta.url);", // (1)!
```

Code annotation for education purposes for newcomers

Reviewer 2: Looks like this for a nicer experience

<img width="1510" alt="image" src="https://github.com/aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-typescript/assets/3340292/8c2f4364-020b-47fe-99bb-25fc293e82c0">

          },
        });
      }
    }

>     ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ```
    
    1. `esbuild` will include this arbitrary code at the top of your bundle to maximize CommonJS compatibility _(`require` keyword)_.
```

Code annotation to explain that polyfill string

=== "With AWS SAM"

    ```yaml hl_lines="14 17-18"
    Transform: AWS::Serverless-2016-10-31
    Resources:
      HelloWorldFunction:
        Type: AWS::Serverless::Function
        Properties:
          Runtime: nodejs20.x
          Handler: src/index.handler
        Metadata:
          BuildMethod: esbuild
          BuildProperties:
            Minify: true
            Target: 'ES2020'
            Sourcemap: true
            Format: esm
            EntryPoints:
              - src/index.ts
            Banner:

>               js: "import { createRequire } from 'module';const require = createRequire(import.meta.url);"
>  
>     ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
              js: "import { createRequire } from 'module';const require = createRequire(import.meta.url);"  # (1)!
 
    ```

    1. `esbuild` will include this arbitrary code at the top of your bundle to maximize CommonJS compatibility _(`require` keyword)_.
```

## Scoped imports

> ### Middy.js middleware imports

Reviewer 2: @dreamorosi could you add a Before/After code snippet here, please?

Author: I added the one for Middy.js imports

> Code changes are required only if you're using Middy.js middlewares, however this update benefits especially those who are **not** using Middy.js middlewares due to less code being imported and bundled in your Lambda function.
> 
> In v1, you could importing Middy.js middlewares in your codebase directly from the default export of a package. For example, to import the `injectLambdaContext` middleware for Logger, you would import it from `@aws-lambda-powertools/logger`. 
> 
> With v2, we've added support for subpath exports. This means that you can now import Middy.js middlewares directly from a well-known path, i.e. `@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/middleware`. This allows you to import the middleware only when you need it, instead of requiring it and having it bundled in your Lambda function when you import the package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
???+ note "Disregard if you are not using Middy.js middlewares."
    In v2, we've added support for subpath exports. This means if you don't import Middy.js middlewares, you will benefit from a smaller bundle size.

In v1, you could import Middy.js middlewares from the default export of a package _(e.g., `logger`)_. For example, you'd import `injectLambdaContext` Logger middleware from `@aws-lambda-powertools/logger`.

In v2, you can now import only the Middy.js middlewares you want to use from a subpath export, for example `@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/middleware`, leading to a smaller bundle size.
```

tip: bring the benefit/change upfront, then explain. you can shorten and even merge sentences by explaining certain topics earlier.

### Types imports

In v1, importing TypeScript types in your codebase required you to be aware of the underlying directory structure of the Powertools for AWS Lambda (TypeScript) package. For example, to import a type from the `@aws-lambda-powertools/logger` package, you would need to import it from `@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/lib/types`.

Starting with v2, we've added support for subpath exports. This means that you can now import types directly from a well-known path, i.e. `@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/types`. This makes it easier and cleaner to import types in your codebase and removes the likelihood of breaking changes in the future.

## Logger

### Log sampling

This only applies if you're using the [log sampling](./core/logger.md#sampling-logs) feature in your codebase.

> In v1, the `sampleRateValue` attribute could be set to a value between 0 and 1 when instantiating the `Logger` class. This value was used to determine the percentage of requests that would print logs at any log level regardless of the log level set in the `Logger` class.
> 
> For example, by setting the sample rate to 0.5 together with log level `ERROR`, roughly 50% of your Lambda invocations would print all the log items, including the `debug`, `info`, and `warn` ones.
> 
> ```typescript
> import { Logger } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger';
> 
> const logger = new Logger({
>     logLevel: 'ERROR',
>     sampleRateValue: 0.5,
> });
> 
> export const handler = async () => {
>     // This log item (equal to log level 'ERROR') will be printed to standard output
>     // in all Lambda invocations
>     logger.error('This is an ERROR log');
> 
>     // These log items (below the log level 'ERROR') have ~50% chance
>     // of being printed in a Lambda invocation
>     logger.debug('This is a DEBUG log that has 50% chance of being printed');
>     logger.info('This is an INFO log that has 50% chance of being printed');
>     logger.warn('This is a WARN log that has 50% chance of being printed');
> };
> ```
> 
> In v2, the `sampleRateValue` attribute is now used to determine the approximate percentage of requests that will have their log level switched to `DEBUG`. This means that the log level set in the `Logger` class will be used for all Lambda invocations, but for a percentage of them, the log level will be switched to `DEBUG` and all log items will be printed to standard output.
> 
> With this new behavior, you should see roughly the same number of log items printed to standard output as in v1, however, the implementation and logic is now in line with other runtimes of Powertools for AWS Lambda like Python, Java, and .NET.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In v1, log sampling implementation was inconsistent from other Powertools for AWS Lambda languages _(Python, .NET, and Java)_. 

In v2, we changed these behaviors for consistency across languages:

| Behavior                | v1                                                           | v2                                            |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------- |
| Log Level               | Log level remains unchanged but any log statement is printed | Log level changes to `DEBUG`                  |
| Log sampling indication | No indication                                                | Debug message indicates sampling is in effect |

Logger `sampleRateValue` **continues** to determine the percentage of concurrent/cold start invocations that logs will be sampled, _e.g., log level set to `DEBUG`_.
```

This was a tough one, please let me know if you think the code snippet adds value despite having no code change for the customer per se, and it can be restored.

To prevent customer confusion, I added an extra standalone sentence to emphasize the calculation per se does not change.

tip: use a table for multiple behavior changes as it's easier in the eye for comparisons and enumerations.

  ): LogItem {
    const baseAttributes = {
        message: attributes.message,
        service: attributes.serviceName,
        environment: attributes.environment,
        awsRegion: attributes.awsRegion,
        correlationIds: {
            awsRequestId: attributes.lambdaContext?.awsRequestId,
            xRayTraceId: attributes.xRayTraceId,
        },
        lambdaFunction: {
            name: attributes.lambdaContext?.functionName,
            arn: attributes.lambdaContext?.invokedFunctionArn,
            memoryLimitInMB: attributes.lambdaContext?.memoryLimitInMB,
            version: attributes.lambdaContext?.functionVersion,
            coldStart: attributes.lambdaContext?.coldStart,
        },
        logLevel: attributes.logLevel,
        timestamp: this.formatTimestamp(attributes.timestamp),
        logger: {
            sampleRateValue: attributes.sampleRateValue,
        },
    };
    // Create a new LogItem with the base attributes
    const logItem = new LogItem({ attributes: baseAttributes });
    // Merge additional attributes
    logItem.addAttributes(additionalLogAttributes);

    return logItem;
  }
}

export { MyCompanyLogFormatter };

> ```

Reviewer 2: In v1, `Logger` combined both [standard]((./core/logger.md#standard-structured-keys)) and [custom keys](./core/logger.md#appending-persistent-additional-log-keys-and-values) as a single argument, _e.g., `formatAttributes(attributes: UnformattedAttributes)`_. It expected a plain object with keys and values you wanted in the final log output.

In v2, you have more control over **standard** (`attributes`) and **custom keys** (`additionalLogAttributes`) in the `formatAttributes` method. Also, you now return a `LogItem` object to increase type safety when defining the final log output.

=== "Before"

    ```typescript hl_lines="5 8"
    import { LogFormatter } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger';
    import {
      LogAttributes,
      UnformattedAttributes,
    } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/lib/types';

    class MyCompanyLogFormatter extends LogFormatter {
      public formatAttributes(attributes: UnformattedAttributes): LogAttributes {
        return {
          message: attributes.message,
          service: attributes.serviceName,
          environment: attributes.environment,
          awsRegion: attributes.awsRegion,
          correlationIds: {
            awsRequestId: attributes.lambdaContext?.awsRequestId,
            xRayTraceId: attributes.xRayTraceId,
          },
          lambdaFunction: {
            name: attributes.lambdaContext?.functionName,
            arn: attributes.lambdaContext?.invokedFunctionArn,
            memoryLimitInMB: attributes.lambdaContext?.memoryLimitInMB,
            version: attributes.lambdaContext?.functionVersion,
            coldStart: attributes.lambdaContext?.coldStart,
          },
          logLevel: attributes.logLevel,
          timestamp: this.formatTimestamp(attributes.timestamp),
          logger: {
            sampleRateValue: attributes.sampleRateValue,
          },
        };
      }
    }

    export { MyCompanyLogFormatter };
    ```

=== "After"

    ```typescript hl_lines="1-2 5-8"
    import { LogFormatter, LogItem } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger';
    import type { LogAttributes, UnformattedAttributes } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/types';

    class MyCompanyLogFormatter extends LogFormatter {
      public formatAttributes(
        attributes: UnformattedAttributes,
        additionalLogAttributes: LogAttributes  // (1)!
      ): LogItem {  // (2)!
        const baseAttributes = {
            message: attributes.message,
            service: attributes.serviceName,
            environment: attributes.environment,
            awsRegion: attributes.awsRegion,
            correlationIds: {
                awsRequestId: attributes.lambdaContext?.awsRequestId,
                xRayTraceId: attributes.xRayTraceId,
            },
            lambdaFunction: {
                name: attributes.lambdaContext?.functionName,
                arn: attributes.lambdaContext?.invokedFunctionArn,
                memoryLimitInMB: attributes.lambdaContext?.memoryLimitInMB,
                version: attributes.lambdaContext?.functionVersion,
                coldStart: attributes.lambdaContext?.coldStart,
            },
            logLevel: attributes.logLevel,
            timestamp: this.formatTimestamp(attributes.timestamp),
            logger: {
                sampleRateValue: attributes.sampleRateValue,
            },
        };

        // Create a new LogItem with the base attributes
        const logItem = new LogItem({ attributes: baseAttributes });

        // Merge additional attributes
        logItem.addAttributes(additionalLogAttributes); // (3)!

        return logItem;
      }
    }

    export { MyCompanyLogFormatter };
    ```

    1. This new argument contains all [your custom keys](./core/logger.md#appending-persistent-additional-log-keys-and-values).
    2. `LogItem` is the new return object instead of a plain object.
    3. If you prefer adding at the initialization, use: <br/><br/> **`LogItem({persistentAttributes: additionalLogAttributes, attributes: baseAttributes})`**

tips: 

1. use `before/after` to group code changes like these, allowing you to bring upfront v1 vs v2 in text form. 
2. use code annotation to provide additional context like an alternative way to add both base + additional attributes.

 
    ```

    1. `esbuild` will include this arbitrary code at the top of your bundle to maximize CommonJS compatibility _(`require` keyword)_.

## Scoped imports

### Middy.js middleware imports

???+ note "Disregard if you are not using Middy.js middlewares."
    In v2, we've added support for subpath exports. This means if you don't import Middy.js middlewares, you will benefit from a smaller bundle size.

In v1, you could import Middy.js middlewares from the default export of a package _(e.g., `logger`)_. For example, you'd import `injectLambdaContext` Logger middleware from `@aws-lambda-powertools/logger`.

In v2, you can now import only the Middy.js middlewares you want to use from a subpath export, _e.g., `@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/middleware`_, leading to a smaller bundle size.

=== "Before"

    ```typescript
    import { Logger, injectLambdaContext } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger';
    import { Tracer, captureLambdaHandler } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer';
    import { Metrics, logMetrics } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/metrics';
    ```

=== "After"

>     ```typescript hl_lines="2 4 6"
>     import { Logger } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger';
>     import { injectLambdaContext } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/middleware';
>     import { Tracer } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer';
>     import { captureLambdaHandler } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer/middleware';
>     import { Metrics } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/metrics';
>     import { logMetrics } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/metrics/middleware';
>     ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ```typescript hl_lines="2 5 8"
    import { Logger } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger';
    import { injectLambdaContext } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/middleware';
    
    import { Tracer } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer';
    import { captureLambdaHandler } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer/middleware';
    
    import { Metrics } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/metrics';
    import { logMetrics } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/metrics/middleware';
    ```
```

Add space to make it easier to grasp before/after. It reads a bit crowded now

<img width="921" alt="image" src="https://github.com/aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-typescript/assets/3340292/f3d5d816-2007-457d-9427-356c6dab1c33">

> ### Types imports

Reviewer 2: can we have a simplistic before/after snippet for consistency?

Author: Added in the last commit, thank you!
